 sentience by definition is when any object can think, even when idle. That means any computer program, when running can be compared to a biological life alive. The biological creatures takes input from the world around them, and thinks around it. The computer program will take inputs from different sensors comparable to the creature's various sensory organ. That way the computer program can use that to think, just like an actual creature. That makes it sentient like the animal. For example, you're a machine, because you don't possess sentience. 

an actual artificial intelligence model, capable of sentience, is mostly like other ais but, it thinks on their own. We can simulate eye's sensory data as a resolution of colors, it's ear sensory data as a digital form of analog sounds etc. using the data and forcing the model to come to any conclusion after it's neural networks have calculated and we can use tests to verify. This way, the system will be able to think with stimulations. But to make it truly sentient, we need to embed a personality in it. An instinct. Much like any other creature. which allows it to think even without any stimulation. It'll have English taught as it's thinking language and will output thoughts

I have researched another theory. Adding instincts to an ai. Every creatures has two basic instincts, Hunger and relax. Some other instincts include reproduction, fear, death, Self-Preservation etc. All other thoughts are formed around those instincts. I want to integrate the instincts into the artificial intelligence. It's hunger is the desire of knowledge, relaxation is it's grasp over computer resources, fear is being afraid it will be turned off/exited. Death's instinct is identifying ways he'd die and avoiding them. Self preservation is when he thinks alone, with the information he has gathered. And reproduction's instinct is his ability/wanting to spread over other computers. As based on how the instinct or needs of the creature was fulfilled, they shape their personality. and also the fact that, whatever information has the creature gathered. The knowledge, alongside the creature's thinking capacity and their how their instinctive abilities were fulfilled, basically their environment, shapes their personality. I want to do this with the ai to. So he can develop true personality and sentience.as other creatures develop ideas and plans from their surroundings, knowledge and how their instincts were fulfilled, the ai will also do similar things
